Al jaer senior political analyst just to
bring up a point that Bernard was making
there Israel was saying that it doesn't
deliberately Target journalists we got
to remember of course that it was the
aler offices in Gaza which I think also
housed AP as well the offices of AP
which were hit by a rocket fired by the
Israeli military this
is very important for us as journalists
we're using this to illustrate the kind
of pressures that journalists go through
but nevertheless it's also indicative of
the kind of of pressure
that Ordinary People in Gaza
Palestinians go through every day when
they're facing the attacks by Israel
absolutely and that's why uh we've seen
uh such a high number of casualties
among our colleagues family members
because they are part and parcel of the
fabric of the Palestinian Society but
yes as you said we also seen the attack
on on offices uh on installations you
know because I think they do consider in
in such context a journalist to be enemy
combatants uh you know uh a journalist
who tells the truth who reports the
facts anyway uh about what is going on
there is more
dangerous uh to any genocidal government
uh than any Hamas fighter uh because at
the end of the day the human toll in
Gaza uh needs to uh um you know rebound
around the world what is happening in
that part of the world and it's
journalists you know we say journalists
are the guarant of any democracy without
journalists you know governments can
transcend their
um functions right in war it's even more
so you know there is no there are no
other guaran that a war is going
according to humanitarian or
international law other than journalists
who else could be there who are the
eyewitnesses who are The Observers who
are the independent not takers
who are the first draft historians of
what goes on in a war zone but
journalists except in this very
particular case unlike you know
journalists who hang out in Western
capitals our journalists or journalists
in in in war time take a lot of risks
upon themselves and their families and
hence they tend to pay the price now
we've seen that here and and and since
we keep talking about both Israel and
the United States almost interchangeably
we remember how our officers and how our
colleagues were killed in Iraq 20 years
ago during the American invasion of Iraq
again our offices were destroyed our
journalists were killed 20 years later
our offices were destroyed couple of
years ago in
Gaza and our journalists are killed um
so you know for for warmongers and and
for for uh you know fight fighting
governments as it were journalists uh do
pose a danger because they tend to
report the facts for those of you just
joining us I want to just explain we're
showing you pictures of wild ddu who is
lying on that gurny there in a hospital
in uh conun having received injuries to
his upper arm we understand uh from
shrapnel uh from an explosive dropped be
believed by an Israeli drone in conun he
was there covering a story near hia
school with his cameraman uh Samir now
we understand that Samir may still be at
the school and the latest we've heard is
that medical assistance has not got to
him yet we believe from well that uh
samir's injuries may be uh critical and
of course there may also be other people
who may have also been caught up in that
uh that attack as well and they too will
need medical assistance we're waiting to
see are here what is happening with uh
with them this is of course coming at a
time when National Security adviser Jake
Sullivan has been saying that uh the US
is encouraging Israel to change its
approach its military approach in Gaza
to uh make the attacks less intense but
from what we can see of course this was
caused by just one Israeli drone that
was uh aimed we believe uh at a school
and yet that it's caused significant
damage so the lessening of that
intensity may not actually have as
significant effect as people might hope
it might
have well certainly not on the short
term nowadays I don't even trust it's
going to be on the intermediate and long
term clearly there are no signs from
Jake Sullivan the National Security
adviser uh press conference that he got
any commitments from the Israeli
government in fact every time an
American official says something as if
it looks like they mean it the Israeli
official uh counters that by saying
that's humbug you know we're not going
to do this that or the other thing the
American can say all they want and we
will do what we must that's how it
always ends up being but now that uh
it's kind of coming together this uh
this visit by the US National Security
adviser as his predecessors I am coming
to the conclusion that what the
Americans are trying to do today about
Gaza is beautify the
genocide that's what they're trying to
do they're trying to make the crimes
look more attractive more digestable
more acceptable by the International
Community they've been asking Israel
non-stop to buy them time to kind of e
ease ease up on the bombings ease up on
the killings of civilians ease up on the
destruction of hospitals and places of
Warships and so on so forth but the
Israelis have been so sadistic in their
uh war that it even irked you know
everyday Joe as it were and Susan in the
United States right so in some in some
way or some fashion the Biden
Administration is basically asking uh
the Israeli government to help America
look better to help it make the genocide
look more acceptable more
digestible but in the end of the day how
how can you make an attack on a
journalist look
attractive how do you make the killing
of a child look good you can't you
simply can't and the Israelis keep on
with their sadistic approach and not
just in Gaza I'm going to give you
another example quickly Rob in Janine
after three days they've done a number
of things they've killed a dozen
people destroyed a dozen
houses blew up in fact residential you
know homes of
people uh they've attacked uh places of
worship but then they did something
else they started
broadcasting Israeli songs from the
minates of the
mosques
why
why why broadcast Israeli songs in
Hebrew from the minates of mosques what
does that where does that fit into the
whatever stupid
unacceptable debunked argument they're
making about security where is that
where does that lie but in a humiliating
sadistic
warmongering humiliation of the
Palestinian people and that's in Janine
that's not in Gaza so you can imagine
there what I've termed earlier astology
the the the the the
approach of destroying Gaza
completely in order to then build
something Israeli or whatever ever it is
new there and that requires first and
foremost making sure that the word about
Gaza does not reach the rest of the
world so that's journalists also make
sure that doctors are not there to give
Aid to the injured make sure that there
is no running water there is no food
there is no electricity there's no
communication when it's possible right
there are no homes or shelters for
people in this winter time to uh to find
a place where they can spend the night
for childrens and families and so on so
forth so this is the situation where we
are in where the Americans are
basically urging the Israelis to
beautify their
genocide this also highlights another
issue that we were talking about with
the the uh representative from the
International Federation of journalists
that it is normally the case any
government who would uh take military
action against journalists in in a war
zone anywhere in the world would say
they have a choice to be there they can
choose to leave this is not the case
with the journalists in Gaza it's not
the case with anybody in Gaza nobody can
leave
Gaza and you know to be honest I mean go
ahead and
convince to leave go ahead mean be my
guest convince uh Sam Abu Daka to leave
go ahead I mean you know I'm not going
to stop anyone to stop them these people
have dedicated their life to their
profession and it's not an in just an
industry they are not car sales people
people they have been there for decades
trying to tell the truth trying to
report the facts about their people and
they're not going to stop because
there's a war it's exactly the contrary
of that Rob because there is war that
they going to stay and report if there
was no war ah you know they might find
their future elsewhere but because their
people are under such uh repression
under such bombing under such you know
genocide that they need to be there to
tell the world the story the human Story
I mean that's our slogan right in Al
jazer telling the human Story I mean but
be that as it may right I mean they're
there especially in this moment to tell
the human story what is going on in Gaza
this is their time to do their job so
even if they do have the capacity to
leave they wouldn't leave some of them
have uh you know I mean Sharin abak had
an American passport she could have left
she didn't want to leave they want to do
their Duty as we spoke earlier about w w
is a very particular case right I mean I
couldn't even myself I couldn't you know
hold it uh when I heard about the death
of so many of his close family members
you know son and and and I know we're
not going to repeat that but anyway all
members of his close family members and
he would rebound the next day and and to
continue to do the job these people
don't want to run away they want to face
the truth in the face they want to face
the Israeli War Machine in the face and
they will continue to do their job and
this not the first time I have been
sitting unfortunately or fortunately in
safety with you here on this on this
platform over four Gaza
Wars I've been lucky to be sitting here
in safety but W and Company and Sam and
all these other people have covered four
Wars in Gaza in that time have covered
the implications and the ramifications
of 17 years of sage in that time while
we were enjoying our industry the media
industry they were paying the price and
they insisted and each and every time to
take the risk for their lives and their
loved ones to do their job so these
people should be appreciated not
insulted for doing their jobs not
humiliated not killed not injured not
attacked and certainly not undermined by
saying oh it's their fault you know they
could have gone that's an insult to our
and their injury it's an insult to our
intelligence they are The
Messengers they shouldn't be blamed the
problem are the
warmongers who are carrying a war of
choice at this point in time there is no
defense in occupied territory anyway and
certainly this has been a war of Revenge
a war of genocide against an entire
people and it's been declared as such
from the outset by saying there are no
innocent in Gaza by the Israeli
president by treating them like human
Animal by the minister of defense and by
saying we're going to go after them and
their children and their animals by the
Israeli Prime Minister this is a war
that needs to be
covered professionally by people who are
sacrificing their Liv putting their and
their loved ones life at stake and they
should be respected they should be
honored not undermined by warmongers in
Israel I'm going to ask you I want to
widen this out a little bit because
we're one of the reasons that we're
talking about Jake Sullivan is the fact
that he's talking to Palestinian
president mmud Abbas the US is very keen
that the Palestinian authori should play
some sort of role in governing Gaza
whenever this conflict comes to an end
given the fact that the level of
Destruction the level of injury and
death that we've seen in Gaza and in the
West Bank whilst in the West Bank
particularly the Palestinian Authority
has been in charge how do you think
people in Gaza would respond to the
Palestinian Authority taking over
responsibilities from Hamas quite
reluctantly uh but until we get there
there's a long way right I am no longer
I'm no longer confident that this is
going to be a matter of weeks or months
it's clear from what we've seen the last
70 days 10
weeks that the the idea of the
destruction of Hamas is not going to
happen anytime in the foreseeable future
this is a long
conflict and we're going to be seeing
the death and the and the destruction of
so much more in Gaza moving forward and
we're going to see how much ethnic
cleansing we're going to see moving
forward but be that as it
may eventually people are going to have
to rebuild their lives right and that's
going to require commitment on the part
of the International Community notably
Arab countries European countries the
United States I would say it should have
been completely the responsibility of
Israel to rebuild Gaza they destroyed it
they should rebuild it and if they going
to reoccupy it then it is within their
responsibility their Duty as an
occupying power to take care to make
sure that people have shelter have food
have electricity have water and so forth
according to international law
but the day after the day after as it
were right the Palestinian Authority
will only be credible and I think they
would only commit to extending their
rule to
Gaza
in cooperation with Hamas or in
understanding with Hamas but also in
understanding with the United States
this could only be done within the
framework of a apprehensive settlers
we've read today in the New York Times
by two former American officials that it
is time that was the first line it is
time for the Biden Administration to
recognize the Palestinian state that
could be an interesting beginning right
this has always been thought of as the
end well we've been in 30 years now
since 1993 in a peace process that
basically led to not just to nothing it
led to exactly the opposite more
settlements illegal settlements so on so
more
violence now we should need to start
with with the end meaning the Biden
Administration needs to walk the talk if
it's in fact committed to a two-state
solution it should join the rest of the
International Community the more than
130 some countries that have already
recognized Palestine by recognizing
Palestine that will show that it's
serious at least right at least about
the Diplomatic solution so if the Biden
Administration does recognize that it
means the UK France German and others
are going to follow soon which means
that we will have a un Security Council
resolution recognizing Israel and by the
way I'm not an expert on us
constitutional law according to the two
officials and according to some US
Supreme Court ruling
President Biden can do that recognize
the P without returning to Congress
because that would have been a problem
because Israel basically controls
Congress Israel and its Lobby control
Congress when it comes to Israel
Palestine it both Congress basically for
all you know matter but Biden as a
president of the United States can
recognize Palestine without going back
to Congress that's an interesting you
know turn of events in within what he
can and cannot do so he doesn't have the
excuse that I can't do that because I
don't have the support of Congress in an
election year that means he could also
and I don't mean to be you know
supporting his election campaign but
certainly that will re rally the
Democratic party behind him because
let's all remember also that a majority
of the public opinion in the United
States have steadily over the past two
three decades supported a two-state
solution in Israel
Palestine so this will have more benefit
to Biden that will probably have for
Palestine for the for the immediate
future because even if he does recognize
Palestine we know that the Israeli
government remains obstinate about the
fact of another sovereignty emerging
between the river and the
sea that will probably push for
elections in Israel as we've seen in
1992 when the American Administration
pushed Israel into joining the peace
process or be left out in the cold they
had an election they elected isak Rabin
isakin joined the peace process and so
on and so forth right so I think we are
at an inflection point now whereby
unlike what we've seen from Jake
Sullivan and his fake declarations about
beautifying the genocide that's going on
in Gaza the Biden administ
Administration can take a serious
commitment a serious step now to towards
fulfilling its commitment to the
Palestinian people and the Israeli
people I should say because too many
Israelis think that the only way Israel
can maintain its so-called Jewish and
Democratic character is by having a
Palestinian state next door otherwise
Israel palan will become eventually one
state that is certainly not Jewish
majority state but be that as it may
clearly there is we are at an inflection
point and if Biden is serious about the
day after the day after
and about the repairing the the the
damage between in Gaza and between Gaza
and the west bank and to have some kind
of a horizon for people to look for and
to bring some of the Arab Partners into
the fold in order for them to support
financially and otherwise the emergence
of this new state then this could all
create a new Dynamic
forward but does the Biden
Administration have the will to do that
because if there is a
will there is a way Maran thank you very
much indeed Maran Bashar senior
political analyst for Al jaer thank you